# Steam Table Calculator
#### <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CUdfGqvtn-U">Video Demo (No Sound)</a>

#### Description:

This Flask web application is used to perform calculations and find thermodynamic properties from steam tables. The saturated properties are obtained from NIST and the superheated and supercritcal data are obtained from the Roger & Mayhew tables. These form the database, the databaseplus.db file.

Not all thermodynamic properties can be found on the actual steam tables as it would be time consuming to do experiments for each data point, so engineers use linear interpolation to make an accurate estimate. Doing it by hand can be tedious so my project uses programming to let the computer do it for you. Also, this website can be used to perform a general adibatic problem to find the final specific enthalpy on the saturated steam tables. Moreover, when calculating saturated pressure and specifc volume of vapor different methods are used along with the standard steam table method, some taken from a recent research article, Affandi et al. 2013, to compare their results and their accuracy to the standard method.

The properties.html file displays the tables and data from the database using a HTML and Javascript. The user should have the actual tables on them, such as the Roger & Mayhew tables when using this website to perform calculations.

The pressure.html and pressresult.html files are used to display the form and the results of the saturated pressure calculations The specific.html and result.html files are used to display the form and the results of the specific volume of vapor calculations. The adibatic.html and adibaticres.html files are used to display the form for the adibatic problem and the results of the final specific enthalpy. The Python file, function.py contains all the main calculations that are used such as calculating errors, the Affandi equation, Buck equation, numpy interpolation as well as the apology function which returns an error message if the user enters something that they should not. These get imported into app.py and are used in pressure(), specific() or adibatic(). Numpy and matplotlib are used in pressure() and adibatic to generate the error graph which are then saved in the static folder as .png and displayed to the user through the pressresult.html and specific.html files. Linear interpolation using np.interp is used in specific() and pressure() to calculate the desired property when the exact temperature that was entered in the form does not exist in the database but lies within the range of temperatures. The data from the tables obtained using SQL is converted to numpy array first and passed into the np.interp() function to do this calculation.

In app.py, the functions used to perform calculations on the superheated and supercritical tables are heated(), heatedtwo() and heatedtwosc(). The heated() function calculates the thermodynamic property given pressure and temperature, whereby temperature may not be in the table and thus linear interpolation is used. The file heated.html contains the form where it allows the user to select the property they want to calculate and using Javascript, the form box containing temperature and pressure shows, where the user can make an input. The resultstwoexisting.html, uresultexist.html, hresultexist.html, and sresultexist.html files show the results of the thermodynanmic property if the the property is already on the table given their pressure and temperature input. The resultstwo.html, resultstwosc.html, uresultstwo.html, hresultstwo.html, hresultstwosc.html,sresultstwo.html and sresultstwosc.html show the results of the linear interpolation to find the thermodynamic property.

I put together both superheated and supercritical table calculations into one function with the use of conditionals to separate them but could not do so for the pressure interpolater. Due to this, the pressure interpolater is split into heatedtwo() and heatedtwosc() in app.py, where "sc" denotes supercritical. The html file, heatedtwo.html, contains the form and select menu which allows the user to select for which thermodynamic property and the temperature they want to find the pressure for. In heatedwo() the pressureexists.html file displays result of the exisiting pressure if linear interpolation is not needed because the thermodynamic property and the pressure that was inputted is already in the superheated table. pressureinterp.html, upressinterp.html, hpressinterp.html and spressinterp.html display the result of the interpolated pressure.

The html file, heatedtwosc.html, contains the form and select menu which allows the user to select for which thermodynamic property and the temperature they want to find the pressure for. The function heatedtwosc() handles the query and interpolation on the supercritical table. pressureexistssc.html displays the pressure if the temperature and thermodynamic property that was inputted is already in the tables. If not either pressureinterp.html, hpressinterp.html or spressinterp.html get displayed. These .html files contain the value of interpolated pressure for, specific volume, specific enthalpy and specific entropy.
